In this video we will provide a quick
summary of the main points from our
first course on introduction to big data.
If you have just completed
our first course and
do not need a refresher,
you may now skip to the next lecture.
After this video,
you will be able to recall
what started the big data era and
the three main big data sources.
Summarize the volume,
variety, velocity and
veracity issues related to each source.
Explain the five step data science
process to gain value from big data.
Remember the main elements
of the Hadoop Stack.
We began our first course with
an explanation of how a lead torrent of
big data combined with cloud computing
capabilities to process data anytime and
anywhere has been at the core of
the launch of the Big Data Era.
This big torrent of big data is often
boil down to a few varieties of data
generated by machines, people and
organizations with machine generated data.
We refer to the data generated from real
time sensors and industrial machinery or
vehicles.
Web logs that track user behavior online.
environmental sensors,
personal health trackers among
many other sense data sources.
With human generated data, we really refer
to the vast amount of social media data,
status updates, tweets, photos and videos.
With organization generated data,
we refer to more traditional types of data
including transaction
information data bases and
structure data often
stored in data warehouses.
Note that big data can be structured,
semi-structured, and unstructured.
Which is a topic we will talk about
more and in depth later in this course.
Whatever your big data application is and
the types of big data you're using,
the real value will come from integrating
different types of data sources and
analyzing them at scale.
Overall, by modeling, managing and
integrating diverse streams
to improve our business and
add value to our big data even
before we start analyzing it.
As a part of modeling and
managing big data is focusing on
the dimensions of scale availability and
considering the challenges associated with
this dimensions to pick the right tools.
Volume, variety and
velocity are the main dimensions which
we characterized big data and
describe its challenges.
We have huge amounts of data
in different formats and
varying quality which
must be processed quickly
veracity refers to the biases,
noise, and abnormality in data,
or the unmeasurable certainty is in the
truthfulness and trustworthiness of data,
and valence refers to
the connectedness of big data.
Such as in the form of graph networks.
Each V presents a challenging
dimension of big data mainly of size,
complexity, speed, quality,
and consecutiveness.
Although we can list some
other v' based on the context.
We prefer to list these five as
fundamental dimensions which
this big data specialization
helps you work on.
Moreover, we must be sure to
never forget the sixth V: Value,
at the heart of the big
data challenge is turning
all of the other dimensions into
truly useful business value.
How will Big Data benefit you and
your organization?
The idea behind processing all
this Big Data in the first place
is to bring value to the problem at hand.
We need to take steps into
Big Data engineering and
scalable data science to
generate value out of Big Data.
We have all heard it.
Data signs turns big data into insides,
or even actions.
But what does that really mean?
Data signs can be taught of as
the basis for empirical research.
Like data is used to induce
information on the observations.
These observations are mainly data.
In our case, big data related to
a business or scientific use case.
Inside is a term we use to refer to
the data products of data science.
It is extracted from
a diverse amount of data
through a combination of exploratory
data analysis and modeling.
The questions are sometimes less
specific and it can require looking
carefully at the data for patterns in
it to come up with a specific question.
Another important point to recognize
is that data science is not static
one time analysis.
It involves a process where models
where you generate give us insights
are constantly improve to a further and
prequel evidence and iterations.